1. what is machine learning?

machine learning is a branch of artificial intelligence (AI) and computer science 
which focuses on the use of data and algorithms to imitate the way that humans learn, 
gradually improving its accuracy


2. how machine learning works?

a) a decision process : machine learning algorithms are used to make a prediction or classification, 
	based on some input data, which can be labeled or unlabeled, 
	our algorithm will produce an estimate about a pattern in the data

b) an error function : error function evaluates the prediction of the model,
	if there are known examples, an error function can make a comparison to assess the accuracy of the model

c) a model optimization process : if the model can fit better to the data points in the training set, 
	then weights are adjusted to reduce the discrepancy between the known example and the model estimate,
	the algorithm will repeat this “evaluate and optimize” process, updating weights autonomously until a threshold of accuracy has been met



3. different machine learning methods?

a) supervised machine learning : in this type of machine learning, data scientists supply algorithms with labeled training data and 
	define the variables they want the algorithm to assess for correlations, both the input and the output of the algorithm is specified

b) unsupervised machine learning : this type of machine learning involves algorithms that train on unlabeled data,
	the algorithm scans through data sets looking for any meaningful connection, 
	the data that algorithms train on as well as the predictions or recommendations they output are predetermined

c) semi-supervised machine learning : this approach to machine learning involves a mix of the two preceding types,
	data scientists may feed an algorithm mostly labeled training data, 
	but the model is free to explore the data on its own and develop its own understanding of the data set

d) reinforcement machine learning : data scientists typically use reinforcement learning to teach a machine to complete a multi-step process 
	for which there are clearly defined rules,
	data scientists program an algorithm to complete a task and give it positive or negative cues as it works out how to complete a task,
	but for the most part, the algorithm decides on its own what steps to take along the way


4. how does supervised machine learning work?

a) inary classification: dividing data into two categories

b) multi-class classification: choosing between more than two types of answers

c) regression modeling: predicting continuous values

d) ensembling: combining the predictions of multiple machine learning models to produce an accurate prediction



5. how does unsupervised machine learning work?

a) clustering : splitting the dataset into groups based on similarity

b) anomaly detection : identifying unusual data points in a data set

c) association mining : identifying sets of items in a data set that frequently occue together

d) dimensionality reduction : reducing the number of variables in a data set



6. how does semi-supervised machine learning work?

a) machine translation : teaching algorithms to translate language based on less than a full dictionary of words

b) fraud detection : identifying cases of fraud when we have only a few positive examples

c) labelling data : algorithms trained on small data sets can learn to apply data labels to larger sets automatically



7. how does reinforcement learning work?

a) robotics : robots can learn to perform tasks the physical world using this technique

b) video gameplay : reinforcement learning has been used to teach bots to play a number of video games

c) resource management : given finite resources and a defined goal, 
	reinforcement learning can hep enterprises plan out how to allocate resources


8. uses of machine learning?

i. customer relationship management
ii. business intelligent
iii. human resouce information systems
iv. self-driving cars
v. virtual assistants
vi. recommendation engines
vii. automated stock trading
viii. fraud detection
ix. speech recognition


9. challenges of machine learning?

i. technological singularity
ii. AI impact on jobs
iii. privacy
iv. bias and discrimination
v. accountability


10. 

